.TH LIBHAIKU_PERROR 3 LIBHAIKU
.SH NAME
libhaiku_perror \- Print a poetic error message
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <libhaiku.h>

void \fBlibhaiku_perror\fP(const char *\fIs\fP);
.fi
.PP
Link with
.IR \-lhaiku .
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B libhaiku_perror
shall print an error message in the format of a haiku, appropriate
for the current value of
.BR errno .
If there is not haiku available for the current value of
.BR errno ,
.B libhaiku_perror
shall call
.BR perror (3)
with
.I s
as its argument unless
.I s
is
.BR NULL ,
and then print a generic haiku.
.PP
Unlike
.BR perror (3),
.B libhaiku_perror
shall not print anything if
.B errno
is zero. If you rather it did, you can use the macro
.PP
.nf
#define libhaiku_perror(s)       \\
  do {                           \\
    const char *s__ = (s);       \\
    if (errno && s__)            \\
      perror(s__);               \\
    errno = errno ? errno : -1;  \\
    libhaiku_perror(0);          \\
  } while (0)
.fi
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR libhaiku (7),
.BR perror (3)
.SH "KNOWN ISSUES"
Must of the haiku uses 5\-7\-5 syllables rather than 5\-7\-5 morae.
This is however of lesser importance, as it is much harder to write
a 5\-7\-5 mora haiku than a 5\-7\-5 syllable haiku.
.SH LICENSE
Copyright \(co 2016  Mattias Andrée
.br
License GPLv3+: GNU GPL version 3 or later <http://gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html>.
.br
This is free software: you are free to change and redistribute it.
.br
There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.
.PP
Copying and distribution of this manual, with or without modification,
are permitted in any medium without royalty provided the copyright
notice and this notice are preserved.  This file is offered as-is,
without any warranty.
.SH BUGS
Please report bugs to <https://github.com/maandree/libhaiku/issues>
or to <maandree@member.fsf.org>.

